---
title: "About Veeam Service Provider Console"
product: "vspc"
doc_type: "provider_user"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vac/provider_user/about.html"
last_updated: "11/13/2025"
product_version: "9.1.0.30636"
---

# About Veeam Service Provider Console


Veeam Service Provider Console is a cloud-enabled platform for centralized management and monitoring of data protection operations and services. The solution is intended for physical, virtual and cloud-based environments protected with Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows, Veeam Agent for Linux and Veeam Agent for Mac (further referred to as Veeam backup agents), Veeam Backup & Replication and Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365.

For client companies that act as backup service consumers, Veeam Service Provider Console offers a Client Portal. The Client Portal is a private workspace for company users where they can perform self-service tasks, without contacting the provider of backup services.

This section contains an overview of Veeam Service Provider Console capabilities and Veeam products integrated with it.

General Features

General functionality of Veeam Service Provider Console includes:

* Backup reporting. You can create reports showing whether protected workloads meet established RPO and SLA requirements.
* Billing. You can view and download invoices generated by your service provider.
* REST API. If your service provider enabled REST API access for you, you can perform most of the operations that are available with Web UI using Veeam Service Provider Console REST API. For details, see [REST API Reference](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/references/vac/9.1/rest/tag/SectionAbout).

For more detailed description of Veeam Service Provider Console features available for managed Veeam products, see [Veeam Service Provider Console Management Capabilities](capability.md).

Veeam Backup Agents

Veeam backup agents management functionality includes:

* Automated installation and upgrade. You can automate deployment and configuration of Veeam backup agents on machines in your infrastructure and upgrade managed Veeam backup agents without accessing the remote machines.

* Backup policies and jobs management. You can configure and assign backup policies and individual Veeam backup agents jobs.
* File-level restore. You can recover files and folders from backups created by Veeam backup agent jobs without accessing the remote machines.
* Data protection monitoring. You can monitor the status of data protection for computers protected with Veeam backup agents.

Veeam Backup & Replication

Veeam Backup & Replication management functionality includes:

* Jobs management. You can create backup jobs on Veeam Backup & Replication servers assigned to you by your service provider and manage jobs and CDP policies configured to protect VMs, computers, file shares and object storage in your infrastructure.

* Failover plans. You can run local and cloud failover plans on managed Veeam Backup & Replication servers.
* Data protection monitoring. You can monitor the status of data protection and continuous data protection for VMs, computers, file shares and object storage protected with Veeam Backup & Replication.

Veeam Backup for Public Clouds

Veeam Backup for Public Clouds management functionality includes:

* Cloud policies management. You can manage policies configured to protect cloud VMs, file shares, database instances and network configurations. To create new cloud backup policies, you can access Veeam Backup for Public Clouds portal from Veeam Service Provider Console.

* Data restore. You can access Veeam Backup for Public Clouds portal to recover data from backups created by Veeam Backup for Public Clouds policies.

* Cloud data protection monitoring. You can monitor the status of data protection for cloud VMs, file shares, databases and network configurations protected with Veeam Backup for Public Clouds.

Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365

Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 management functionality includes:

* Organizations management. You can register new Microsoft 365 organizations that you want to protect.
* Jobs management. You can create and manage backup and backup copy jobs.
* Restore portal. You can access Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 Restore Portal to recover data from backups created by Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 jobs.

* Data protection monitoring. You can monitor the status of data protection for Microsoft 365 workloads protected with Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365.

Veeam ONE

You can enable alarms integration to monitor and manage in Veeam Service Provider Console alarms triggered on managed Veeam ONE servers.

This document describes how to work with the Veeam Service Provider Console Client Portal. The document scope is limited to functionality available in the Client Portal, and does not cover features available in the Administrator Portal or Reseller Portal. For details on Veeam Service Provider Console features available in the Administrator Portal, see [Guide for Service Providers](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vac/provider_admin/about.html?ver=9.1). For details on Veeam Service Provider Console features available in the Reseller Portal, see [Guide for Resellers](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vac/reseller/about.html?ver=9.1).


