---
title: "Licensed Objects"
product: "vspc"
doc_type: "provider_admin"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vac/provider_admin/licensed_objects.html"
last_updated: "9/24/2025"
product_version: "9.1.0.30636"
---

# Licensed Objects


To work with Veeam Service Provider Console, you must install a license. The Veeam Service Provider Console license is required regardless of the type of services you plan to provide. It is recommended to use an instance based or a merged Veeam Universal License intended for Veeam Cloud & Service Providers (VCSP). For example, you can install a license that is already used for Veeam Cloud Connect.

You will also need licenses for objects managed in Veeam Service Provider Console — Veeam backup agents, Veeam Backup & Replication and Veeam Cloud Connect. This section describes how these managed objects are licensed, and what types of licenses you will need to obtain.

Licensing for Managed Veeam Backup Agents

Every Veeam backup agent that you manage in Veeam Service Provider Console requires licensing points. A point here is a unit (or token) that is assigned to a Veeam backup agent to make it manageable in Veeam Service Provider Console and to communicate information about points consumed from the license file.

Points for Veeam backup agents are included in the license file generated by Veeam Service Provider Console and stored on Veeam Service Provider Console side. This license file may include an arbitrary number of points that form a license pool for Veeam backup agents. Every Veeam backup agent managed in Veeam Service Provider Console consumes a number of points from this pool through license token assigned to the agent. The number of points consumed by a managed Veeam backup agent depends on the mode in which the Veeam backup agent operates (Server or Workstation) and license edition.

This licensing model allows you to purchase a certain number of points without knowing in advance what types of computers you plan to protect with Veeam backup agents, and how backup jobs will be configured. Veeam Service Provider Console automatically detects the Veeam backup agent job mode, and assigns to Veeam backup agents the necessary number of points from the license pool. When a need arises, you can revoke points from one managed Veeam backup agent, and reuse them to manage Veeam backup agent on another computer, regardless of the backup job mode.

If you do not plan to manage Veeam backup agents in Veeam Service Provider Console, you still need to install a Veeam Service Provider Console license. This license will include zero Veeam backup agent points, but is required to work with Veeam Service Provider Console.

Licensing for Managed Veeam Backup & Replication Servers

Every Veeam Backup & Replication server that you manage in Veeam Service Provider Console requires its own license, as prescribed by regular licensing terms for Veeam Backup & Replication. Managed Veeam Backup & Replication servers must run a full product version. Veeam Service Provider Console does not support management of Veeam Backup & Replication Community Edition.

For details on Veeam Backup & Replication licensing, see section [Licensing](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/userguide/licensing.html?ver=13) of the Veeam Backup & Replication User Guide.

Licensing for Veeam Cloud Connect

Veeam Service Provider Console runs on top of Veeam Cloud Connect that requires its own license. The Veeam Cloud Connect license must be installed on the Veeam Cloud Connect backup server.

Depending on whether you plan to provide cloud host and cloud repository resources to clients, you may need to install either a free or a paid Veeam Cloud Connect license.

Free Veeam Cloud Connect License

You can install a free Veeam Cloud Connect license on the Veeam Cloud Connect server. The free Veeam Cloud Connect license allows you to deploy cloud gateways, which is required by Veeam Service Provider Console.

Storing Veeam Backup Agent Data in the Cloud

To store in the cloud backups created with Veeam backup agents, you can install a free Veeam Cloud Connect license on the Veeam Cloud Connect server. If you back up computer data with a VCSP Rental license of Veeam backup agent, you can also store backups of these computers on cloud repositories with no additional license fee for Veeam Cloud Connect backups.

Storing VM Backups in the Cloud

To store in the cloud VM backups created with Veeam Backup & Replication, you must install on the Veeam Cloud Connect server a paid Veeam Cloud Connect license that covers the necessary number of backed up VMs.

For details, see section [Licensing for Service Providers](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/cloud/cloud_connect_licensing.html) of the Veeam Cloud Connect Guide.

Storing VM Replicas in the Cloud

To store in the cloud VM replicas created with Veeam Backup & Replication, you must install on the Veeam Cloud Connect server a paid Veeam Cloud Connect license that covers the necessary number of cloud VM replicas.

For details, see section [Licensing for Service Providers](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/cloud/cloud_connect_licensing.html) of the Veeam Cloud Connect Guide.

Protecting Veeam Backup for Public Clouds Workloads

To deploy Veeam Backup for Public Clouds appliances from Veeam Service Provider Console and protect Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure workloads, you must install a Rental license on the Veeam Cloud Connect server.

For details, see section [Rental Veeam Backup & Replication License](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/cloud/cloud_connect_hosting_licenses.html) of the Veeam Cloud Connect Guide.

Licensing for Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365

To manage and monitor Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 servers in client and hosted infrastructures, you must install a paid Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 license on the Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 server.

For details, see section [Licensing and License Types](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbo365/guide/vbo_licensing.html) in the Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 User Guide.

Licensing for Veeam ONE

To manage and monitor Veeam ONE servers in client and hosted infrastructures, you must install a paid Veeam ONE license on the Veeam ONE server.

For details, see section [License Types and Packages](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/one/userguide/license_types.html) in the Veeam ONE User Guide.


